---
layout: post
title:  "Why Mars?"
date:   2020-05-23 14:07:20 -0700
excerpt: "You probably know about the increasin craze to go to Mars and possibly even live there in the future. Did you ever think, why Mars? Why not any other planet, or the Moon? Find out the reason for the Mars Craze with this article."
image: /images/mars.jpg
featured: true
---
# Why Mars?

I'm sure you all know by now about the craze to go to Mars and maybe even live there in the future. Have you ever thought, why Mars, why not the Moon, or Venus? The most obvious reason is probably that Mars is the closest planet to us. But, most importantly, scientific studies show that Mars is the planet that is most like ours in this solar system. It has an atmosphere, which is necessary for human beings to live (it's atmosphere has started becoming thinner from when Earth's population started increasing, though). Scientists were also able to observe that there was once water in the Red Planet, as they look at pictures and samples of the planet's landscape. Water is still stored in Mars, as the form of ice, along with frozen carbon dioxide. Another important fact that supports the opinion of living on Mars is that the planet is in the "Goldilocks Zone" of our solar system, meaning that it is close enough to the Sun to keep water liquid and sustain life, but also far enough from the Sun to avoid being scorched. This zone contains the only planets that life is possible on. The weather of these planets are not too hot, or too cold. We also have to think in the future to understand this Mars craze. As you know,the Earth is getting more polluted everyday with greenhouse gases, which is causing our atmosphere to get thinner and even form holes in some places. This is a bigger danger than you might think because the reason for our atmosphere is to protect us from the harmful rays the sun produces (and to protect us from objects from space falling on the Earth and making human pancakes). As our atmosphere gets thinner, we are more exposed to these rays which cause skin diseases and other health issues. Scientists predict that humans cannot live on Earth forever because of this reason, and need to find another planet suitable for hosting life. Mars meets these requirements and is therefore, one of the few, if not only possible planet to live on other than Earth.